HIT_HMU1440

                               __    __
                                ||  ||
                                ||==|| I T
                               _||  ||_

                    Harold Innovation Technologies
                "If it ain't a HIT, it's a piece of..."


Media Info:
    Name: HMU1440 - 1.44 MB 3.5" Harold Media Unit
    Document version: 1.1
    
    
Description:
    The HMU1440 is the latest effort on the part of Harold Innovation
    Technologies to futurise the computing landscape of tomorrow; today!
    It is a high-density, double-sided magnetic storage device.  That's right, 
    it uses MAGNETS to store DATA.  Isn't technology amazing?
    
    It packs a whopping 1,440 512-word sectors into 80 beautifully delineated 
    tracks for a total stuff-icity of 1,474,560 octets.
    
    It also comes complete with a precision Write Lock slide-switch to protect 
    your many and varied files and a super high-quality Label, pre-lined for 
    your convenience and compatible with most writing implements on the market 
    today!  It is also available in a wide variety of colors including Blue and 
    White, but NOT Red.
    
    This disc is of such high quality of construction and design that it can 
    only be reliably WRITTEN to by Harold Innovation Technologies' HMD2043 
    Harold Media Drive.  However, this disc is of such high quality of 
    construction and design that it can be reliably READ from by even the most 
    basic and technologically backward of disk drives.
    
    So enjoy, and may this happy little disk provide you years of faithful 
    service before inexplicably failing, but not so fast that you cannot buy a 
    new disk and save almost all of your data.
    
        -- Harold Lam, Founder and Chief Innovationist.


Specification:
    Data surfaces: 2
    Tracks: 80
    Sectors per track: 18
    Total sectors: 1440
    
    Note: sectors are spread across both data surfaces; specifically, even bits 
    of a sector are stored on the "top" data surface, odd bits on the "bottom" 
    data surface.  This doubles effective read/write speed.


EOF

Author's Note:
    
    A. I wanted a floppy spec.
    
    B. I wanted a little bit of Cave Johnson.
    
    I tried to write Harold Lam as an antagonistic, blindly patriotic man who 
    is none the less a savvy businessman who has managed to build up an IT 
    empire despite his at-times dogmatic approach.
    
    Plus, I figured it could be a source of fun in the game's backstory to have
    at least two, at-odds technology companies (all gone and turned to dust by 
    now) taking pot shots at one another through the eloquent medium of spec 
    sheets. Or at least *one* technology company at-odds with and taking pot-
    shots at *everyone else*.
    
    In response to this, the engineers do their best to subtly mock him.  Like
    the result of command 0xFFFF: they don't specify whether it's signed or 
    not.  The command is only there at all because Lam decreed it thus.
    
    Also, originally I mistakenly thought that Nya Elektriska was Russian.  I 
    have no excuses for why; that's just what popped into my head when I first 
    saw the name.  I'd like to apologise to everyone for the mistake.  I've 
    since revised Lam's introduction to the HMD2043.

    As for implementation, I've tried to include enough explicit timing 
    information to make working out how many cycles to "block" for relatively 
    easy.  The only possibly tricky bit is the non-blocking mode.  For that to 
    be efficiently implemented, the emulator will need some kind of event queue 
    for keeping track of upcoming events.
    
    Although it would be more realistic to have the data trickle into memory 
    during a non-blocking operation, I think we can probably get away with just 
    doing it all-at-once at the end of the wait time for now.
    
    Incidentally, the design of the disks *more or less* matches that of the 
    real 1.44 MB 3.5" disks.  In order to make them more DCPU-16 friendly, I 
    specified that the sectors on both sides of the disc are really one, giving 
    us sectors that are twice the size (by number of bits), but with the same 
    overall physical configuration and capacity.